[project]: https://github.com/ElMassimo/vite_ruby
[GitHub Issues]: https://github.com/ElMassimo/vite_ruby/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-desc
[GitHub Discussions]: https://github.com/ElMassimo/vite_ruby/discussions
[sourceCodeDir]: /config/#sourcecodedir
[watchAdditionalPaths]: /config/#watchadditionalpaths
[entrypointsDir]: /config/#entrypointsDir
[devServerConnectTimeout]: /config/#devserverconnecttimeout
[host]: /config/#host
[port]: /config/#port
[vite]: https://vitejs.dev/
[vite-plugin-ruby]: https://github.com/ElMassimo/vite_ruby/tree/main/vite-plugin-ruby
[viteBinPath]: /config/#vitebinpath
[docker example]: https://github.com/ElMassimo/vite_rails_docker_example
[Using Heroku]: /guide/deployment#using-heroku
[example app]: https://github.com/ElMassimo/vite_ruby/tree/main/examples/rails/vite.config.ts
[windi]: /guide/plugins.html#windi-css
[@vitejs/plugin-react]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@vitejs/plugin-react
[tag helpers]: /guide/development.html#tag-helpers-🏷
[ulimit]: https://wilsonmar.github.io/maximum-limits/
[additionalEntrypoints]: /config/#additionalentrypoints
[advanced usage]: /guide/advanced
[smart output]: /guide/rails.html#smart-output-%E2%9C%A8

# Troubleshooting

This section lists a few common gotchas, and bugs introduced in the past.

Please skim through __before__ opening an [issue][GitHub Issues].

## Performance Problems

### Slow development environment

Because Vite does not bundle your code during development, larger applications can end up depending on hundreds — even thousands — of individual assets.

By default, Vite Ruby proxies these assets through your Rails server at `/vite-dev/*`. Since Rails servers are not typically configured to handle thousands of concurrent IO-bound requests, this can lead to significant amounts of request queueing.

There are three different ways to solve this:

1. Configure the [`skipProxy`](/config/index.html#skipproxy-experimental) setting to `true`. Requests will be sent to the Vite development server directly, without going through your Rails server.
2. Increase the number of Puma threads in development. Puma is typically configured with `3` threads, which is great for production when your assets are bundled or even handled by a separate proxy or CDN, but this should be increased to `100` or more when using Vite Ruby’s proxy in development.
3. If you are running your app through a separate proxy such as [Caddy](https://caddyserver.com) in development, you can configure it to proxy requests that match `/vite-dev/*` directly to the Vite development server while leaving the rest of your app to be served by your Rails server.

Here’s an example `Caddyfile` configuration.

```
myapp.localhost {
  handle /vite-dev/* {
    reverse_proxy localhost:3036
  }
  reverse_proxy localhost:5400
  tls internal
}
```

## Installation Problems

### Missing executable error

Verify that both <kbd>[vite]</kbd> and <kbd>[vite-plugin-ruby]</kbd> are in `devDependencies` in your `package.json` and have been installed by running <kbd>bin/vite info</kbd>.

If you are using a non-standard setup, try configuring <kbd>[viteBinPath]</kbd>.

### Your `bin/bundle` was not generated by Bundler

It's likely that your `bin/bundle` was generated by an older version of bundler
than the one you are running now (and was used to generate `bin/vite`).

Running `bundle binstubs bundler --force` [might not be desirable](https://github.com/ElMassimo/vite_ruby/discussions/75). If it works, great! If not, you will want
to run `bundle config --delete bin` afterwards to avoid binstubs from being
generated for all gems with executables.

As an alternative, try removing the check for the message in `bin/vite`, or run
`bundle exec vite` instead.

### Double installation on deployment

Package managers like `npm`, `pnpm`, and `yarn` will quickly skip installation when
packages have already been installed, so double installation would only happen
in scenarios like:

```bash
npm ci
# later
NPM_CONFIG_INCLUDE="dev" npm ci
```

If you see a double installation in the deployment logs, check that you have
configured your deployment to [avoid pruning](/guide/deployment.html#using-heroku)
any [development dependencies](/guide/deployment.html#rake-tasks-⚙%EF%B8%8F) before compiling assets.

## Common Problems

### Changes are not taken into account, build is skipped

Usually happens when importing code outside the <kbd>[sourceCodeDir]</kbd>.

Add a file path or dir glob in <kbd>[watchAdditionalPaths]</kbd> to ensure changes to those files trigger a new build.

### No Vite Ruby output in tests even though it's building

Vite Ruby uses the [Rails logger](https://github.com/ElMassimo/vite_ruby/blob/main/vite_rails/lib/vite_rails/engine.rb#L20-L24) when available, which in the `test`
environment usually outputs to a `log/test.log` file instead of `$stdout` as in `development`.

To see the output when running integration tests, you can [manually assign a logger](https://github.com/ElMassimo/vite_ruby/blob/main/examples/rails/spec/spec_helper.rb#L11) in `spec_helper.rb` or a similar file that is only loaded in the test environment.

### Can't reference `style.css` when using `cssCodeSplit: false`

As covered in the [tag helpers] section:

> All helpers resolve names to the <kbd>[entrypointsDir]</kbd> unless the path includes a directory

Use the `~/` alias to the <kbd>[sourceCodeDir]</kbd> to disambiguate the reference:

```erb
<%= vite_stylesheet_tag '~/style.css' unless ViteRuby.instance.dev_server_running? %>
```

### The CJS build of Vite's Node API is deprecated

Please refer to [Vite's troubleshooting guide](https://vitejs.dev/guide/troubleshooting.html#vite-cjs-node-api-deprecated).

You might need to add `"type": "module"` to your `package.json`, or rename
`vite.config.ts` to `vite.config.mts`.

## HMR Issues

### Hot Module Refresh does not work for React

When using <kbd>[@vitejs/plugin-react]</kbd> in non-HTML entrypoints,
you must explicitly [register the HMR plugin](https://github.com/vitejs/vite/issues/1984#issuecomment-778289660).

A [<kbd>vite_react_refresh_tag</kbd> helper][tag helpers] is provided for your convenience:

```erb
  <%= vite_client_tag %>
  <%= vite_react_refresh_tag %>
  <%= vite_javascript_tag 'application' %>
```

### Making HMR work with `puma-dev` in HTTPS apps

When running the Ruby server in HTTPS mode, you'll want the Vite HMR client to also
connect via HTTPS to avoid [_Mixed content_ errors](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Mixed_content).

You can configure `puma-dev` to run in HTTPS mode while keeping Vite running in
plain HTTP mode. See [this discussion](https://github.com/ElMassimo/vite_ruby/discussions/215) for configuration steps.

### Making HMR work in Docker Compose

Using Vite.js with Docker Compose requires configuring [`VITE_RUBY_HOST`][host] in the services.

In the Rails service, it should match the [name of your Vite service](https://github.com/ElMassimo/vite_rails_docker_example/blob/main/docker-compose.yml#L13), and in the Vite service it should be [set to receive external requests](https://github.com/ElMassimo/vite_rails_docker_example/blob/main/docker-compose.yml#L27) (from the browser in the host) in order to perform HMR.

Refer to this [Docker example] for a working setup, or [read this article](https://evilmartians.com/chronicles/vite-lizing-rails-get-live-reload-and-hot-replacement-with-vite-ruby) for a full walkthrough.

## Network Issues

### Build is triggered when the dev server is running

First, verify that the dev server is reachable by starting a new console session and running:

```ruby
> ViteRuby.instance.dev_server_running?
```

If it returns `false`, try increasing the <kbd>[devServerConnectTimeout]</kbd>, restart the console and retry.
In systems with constrained resources the [default timeout][devServerConnectTimeout] might not be enough.

If that doesn't work, verify that the [host] and [port] configuration is correct.

### Requests to vite refuse to connect for `::1`

In systems where `localhost` [defaults to `::1`](https://github.com/ElMassimo/vite_ruby/discussions/89?converting=1#discussioncomment-843021) it might be necessary to configure <kbd>[host]</kbd> to explicitly use `127.0.0.1`, since that's what [Vite uses by default](https://github.com/vitejs/vite/pull/2977/files#diff-35ba301b85014a4bfaa9cad2d8e7eafa41c4e8c2ddd5c193182241d9a1542082R45-R47).

```json
  "development": {
    "host": "127.0.0.1",
    "port": 3036,
```

### Requests to vite sporadically return a 404 error response

[See above](/guide/troubleshooting.html#build-is-triggered-when-the-dev-server-is-running), it could be related to the <kbd>[devServerConnectTimeout]</kbd>.

### Requests to vite sporadically return a 500 error response

Check your `ulimit -n` to make sure the limit of file descriptors is not [too low][ulimit].

This is probably the case if you are seeing errors such as `#<Errno::EMFILE: Too many open files` along with `#<SocketError: Failed to open TCP connection`.

Follow [this article][ulimit] for information on how to increase the limit of file descriptors in your OS.

### Safari does not reflect CSS and JS changes in development

Safari [ignores](https://bugs.webkit.org/show_bug.cgi?id=193533) the `Cache-Control: no-cache` header for preloaded CSS and JS files, which is inconvenient in development as HMR does not work as expected, requiring the cache to be cleared manually in order to see changes.

By default, Rails javascript and stylesheet tag helpers cause a `Link: ... rel=preload` header to be emitted, which triggers the Safari bug. As a workaround, you can disable the preload behavior in development as follows:

```ruby
# config/environments/development.rb

Rails.application.configure do
  # Disable `Link: ... rel=preload` header to workaround Safari caching bug
  # https://bugs.webkit.org/show_bug.cgi?id=193533
  config.action_view.preload_links_header = false
end
```

With preloading disabled, Safari will properly refresh changed files and HMR will work.

## Fixed Issues

### Build not working in CI or Heroku

Make sure `devDependencies` are installed when precompiling assets in a CI.

Refer to the _[Using Heroku]_ section.

### `vite` and `vite-plugin-ruby` were not installed

If you have run <kbd>bundle exec vite install</kbd>, check the output for errors.

### Asset names can not be relative `../../vite/legacy-polyfills`

Make sure to upgrade `vite_plugin_legacy` manually with a compatible version of
`vite_ruby`.

The `upgrade` command has now been fixed to also upgrade `vite_plugin_legacy`.

## Upgrading to V3

### Assets are failing to resolve after upgrade

It's likely that you have a nested directory structure under <kbd>[entrypointsDir]</kbd>.

See the _[Migrating from v2](/guide/migrating-from-v2.html#nested-entrypoints-paths-must-be-explicit)_ section for more information.

### Assets inside sourceCodeDir are being bundled

This is the default behavior in v3, which simplifies referencing images and icons
using [tag helpers].

You can opt out by configuring <kbd>[additionalEntrypoints]</kbd>, see _[Advanced Usage]_.

## Other Libraries

### Tailwind CSS is slow to load

A project called [Windi CSS](https://github.com/windicss/windicss) addresses this pain point − I've created a [documentation website](http://windicss.netlify.app/).

A [plugin for Vite.js](https://github.com/windicss/vite-plugin-windicss) is available, and should allow you to get [insanely faster](https://twitter.com/antfu7/status/1361398324587163648) load times in comparison.

Check the [_Recommended Plugins_][windi] section for more information.

### esbuild: cannot execute binary file

This can happen when using mounted volumes in Docker, and attempting to run Vite from the host, or installing dependencies in the host and then trying to run Vite in the container.

Since `esbuild` relies on a `postinstall` script, and the architecture of the host usually does not match the architecture of the image, this means the binaries are not compatible.

Try reinstalling `esbuild` in the host or container—depending on where you intend to run it—to ensure it's built for the corresponding system architecture.

### Windi CSS does not detect changes to server templates

Ensure you're using `vite-plugin-windicss@0.9.5` or higher.

Check the [_Recommended Plugins_][windi] section for more information.

## Contact ✉️

Please visit [GitHub Issues] to report bugs you find, and [GitHub Discussions] to make feature requests, or to get help.

Don't hesitate to [⭐️ star the project][project] if you find it useful!

Using it in production? Always love to hear about it! 😃
